docs(publishing): update general docs on publishing (#1359)
ionic-team/stencil-site: docs/guides/publishing.md

### Lazy Loading

If you prefer to have your components automatically loaded when used in your application, we recommend to enable the [`dist`](../output-targets/distribution.md) output target. The bundle gives you a small entry file that registers all your components and only loads the full component logic when it gets rendered in your application. It doesn't matter if the actual application is written in HTML or created with vanilla JavaScript, jQuery, React, etc.

Your users can import your component library, e.g. called `my-design-system`, either via a `script` tag:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://unpkg.com/my-design-system"></script>
```

or by importing it in the bootstrap script of your application:

```ts
import 'my-design-system';
```

To ensure that the right entry file is loaded when importing the project, define the following fields in your `package.json`:

```json
{
  "exports": "./dist/esm/my-design-system.js",
  "main": "./dist/cjs/my-design-system.js",
  "unpkg": "dist/my-design-system/my-design-system.esm.js",
}
```

> Read more about various options when it comes to distributing your components lazily in the [`dist`](../output-targets/distribution.md) output target section.

Author: Yeah, this is unclear. I will change it to:

```suggestion
Read more about various options when it comes to configuring your project's components for lazy loading in the [`dist`](../output-targets/distribution.md) output target section.
```

### Standalone

The [`dist-custom-elements`](../output-targets/custom-elements.md) output target builds each component as a stand-alone class that extends `HTMLElement`. The output is a standardized custom element with the styles already attached and without any of Stencil's lazy-loading. This may be preferred for projects that are already handling bundling, lazy-loading and defining the custom elements themselves.

You can use these standalone components by importing them via:

```ts
import { MyComponent, defineCustomElementMyComponent } from 'my-design-system'

// register to CustomElementRegistry
defineCustomElementMyComponent()

// or extend custom element via
class MyCustomComponent extends MyComponent {

>   // ...

Author: Yes, for example, let's say we publish a `create-stencil` component, you can change functionality by extending the class and overwriting component methods, e.g.:

```html
<script type="module">
  import { MyComponent } from 'https://unpkg.com/foobar-design-system@0.0.4/dist/components/index.js'
  class ChangedComponent extends MyComponent {
    getText() {
      return 'a new component!';
    }
  }

  customElements.define('my-component', ChangedComponent);
  customElements.define('my-component-orig', MyComponent);
</script>
<my-component first="foo" last="bar"></my-component>
<my-component-orig first="foo" last="bar"></my-component-orig>
```

This will result in:

<img width="259" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-28 at 10 16 25 AM" src="https://github.com/ionic-team/stencil-site/assets/731337/3120ab4b-998f-4afd-879d-5b02eaec35c6">

>   // ...

Reviewer: wow I didn't know that worked! I guess I hadn't tried it

>   // ...

Reviewer 2: Yeah extending the compiled class output will work, but obviously wouldn't be able to add any additional reactivity (states, props, watchers, etc.) at this time.

#### Usage in TypeScript

If you plan to support consuming your component library in TypeScript you'll need to set `generateTypeDeclarations: true` on the your output target in `stencil.config.ts`, like so:

```tsx title="stencil.config.ts"
import { Config } from '@stencil/core';

export const config: Config = {
  outputTargets: [
    {
      type: 'dist-custom-elements',
      generateTypeDeclarations: true,
    },
    // ...
  ],
  // ...
};
```

Then you can set the `types` property in `package.json` so that consumers of your package can find the type definitions, like so:

```tsx title="package.json"
{
  "types": "dist/components/index.d.ts",
  "dependencies": {
    "@stencil/core": "latest"
  },
  ...
}
```

:::note
If you set the `dir` property on the output target config, replace `dist/components` in the above snippet with the path set in the config.
:::

## Publishing to NPM

> The first step and highly recommended step is to [publish the component library to NPM](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/publishing-npm-packages). [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) is an online software registry for sharing libraries, tools, utilities, packages, etc. Once the library is published to NPM, other projects are able to add your component library as a dependency and use the components within their own projects.

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we should reword this a bit:
```suggestion
[NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) is an online software registry for sharing libraries, tools, utilities, packages, etc. To make your Stencil project widely available to be consumed, it's recommended to [publish the component library to NPM](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/publishing-npm-packages). Once the library is published to NPM, other projects are able to add your component library as a dependency and use the components within their own projects.
```

Thoughts?

Author: Looks good!

slug: /publishing
---

There are numerous strategies to publish and distribute your component library to be consumed by external projects. One of the benefits of Stencil is that is makes it easy to generate the various [output targets](../output-targets/01-overview.md) that are right for your use-case.

## Use Cases

To use your Stencil components in other projects, there are two different output targets to consider: [`dist`](../output-targets/dist.md) and [`dist-custom-elements`](../output-targets/custom-elements.md). Both export your components for different use cases. Luckily, both can be generated at the same time, using the same source code, and shipped in the same distribution. It would be up to the consumer of your component library to decide which build to use.

### Lazy Loading

> If you prefer to have your components automatically loaded when used in your application, we recommend to enable the [`dist`](../output-targets/dist.md) output target. The bundle gives you a small entry file that registers all your components and only loads the full component logic when it gets rendered in your application. It doesn't matter if the actual application is written in HTML or created with vanilla JavaScript, jQuery, React, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer to have your components automatically loaded when used in your application, we recommend enabling the [`dist`](../output-targets/dist.md) output target. The bundle gives you a small entry file that registers all your components and defers loading the full component logic until it is rendered in your application. It doesn't matter if the actual application is written in HTML or created with vanilla JavaScript, jQuery, React, etc.
```

just some wording suggestions here

The generated files will each export a component class and will already have the styles bundled. However, this build does not define the custom elements or apply any polyfills. Static assets referenced within components will need to be set using `setAssetPath` (see [Making Assets Available](../output-targets/custom-elements.md#making-assets-available)).

You can use these standalone components by importing them via:

```ts
import { MyComponent, defineCustomElementMyComponent } from 'my-design-system'

// register to CustomElementRegistry
defineCustomElementMyComponent()

// or extend custom element via
class MyCustomComponent extends MyComponent {
  // ...
}
define('my-custom-component', MyCustomComponent)
```

To ensure that the right entry file is loaded when importing the project, define different [exports fields](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) in your `package.json`:

```json
{
  "exports": {
    ".": {
      "import": "./dist/components/index.js",
      "types": "./dist/components/index.d.ts"
    },
    "./my-component": {
      "import": "./dist/components/my-component.js",
      "types": "./dist/components/my-component.d.ts"
    }

>   },

Reviewer: not something we should do now, but it would be nice for supporting this usage of `exports` with DCE if we could auto-generate a JSON blob for all the components, so that users didn't have to automatically keep it in sync - imagine the nightmare of doing that if you had 200 components or something like that

Author: What does DCE stands for?

Author: Yeah, sounds like a great idea!

  "types": "dist/components/index.d.ts",
}
```

This allows us to map certain import paths to specific components within our project and allows users to only import the component code they are interested in and reduce the amount of code that needs to downloaded by the browser, e.g.:

```js
// this import loads all compiled components
import { MyComponent } from 'my-design-system'
// only import compiled code for MyComponent
import { MyComponent } from 'my-design-system/my-component'
```

If you define exports targets for all your components as shown above and by using [`customElementsExportBehavior: 'auto-define-custom-elements'`](../output-targets/custom-elements.md#customelementsexportbehavior) as output target option, you can skip the `defineCustomElement` call and directly import the component where you need it:

```ts
import 'my-design-system/my-component'
```

:::note
If you are distributing both the `dist` and `dist-custom-elements`, then it's best to pick one of them as the main entry depending on which use case is more prominent.

> :::

Reviewer: By this you mean the file path in the `main` field in `package.json`? There's a `main` field shown above for `dist` but it doesn't show one for DCE, might be helpful to have that more explanation of what setting the `main` field would look like for DCE

(possible I'm also misunderstanding something here haha)

Author: I left this out intentionally as I don't know if it is a good idea to define a `main` entry point DCE. `main` is usually only used for CJS environments. We don't export DCE as CJS module. I am sure this can be configured but don't think anyone would want to import CJS to then re-transpile back to ESM which is what is supported in the browser.

Reviewer: Ok that sounds fine, I guess if the user is going to distribute _both_ then we can rely on them a bit to figure out how to do that correctly
